if you could make season eight of Game
of Thrones an enjoyable experience like
that's what would the figured out
that's what enlightenment is is living
your life and being able to enjoy season
eight of Game of Thrones
that's enlightenment modern-day
definition of enlightenment
okay let's do let's do this question
about suicide my question I don't have
thoughts of suicide but my desire to
live life to live is really low I don't
want to die and my morals and ethics are
really against suicide but how does how
do one distinguish between thoughts of
not wanting to live and wanting to die
don't worry I'm not in danger of doing
anything I just don't want my
perspective I just don't want my
perspective to change over time ah I'm
assuming that by your perspective to
change over time you mean you want to
not start thinking about suicide as
opposed to not wanting to live I hope
your perspective changes over time but I
hope what changes is your desire to live
gets higher so let me read this again I
don't have thoughts of suicide but my
desire to live is really low I don't
want to die and my morals and ethics are
really against suicide but how does one
distinguish between thoughts of not
wanting to live and wanting to die
fantastic question
so I think it's important to okay so
let's just talk about this is a great
question I love it so I'm a psychiatrist
I treat depression right so depression
is like when people feel like their mood
is really low and they feel unhappy and
sometimes they can be suicidal they
don't feel like doing anything they feel
a motivated and sometimes what I'm
treating someone with depression there
comes a day where they come into my
office and then I kind of assess them
for depression so I use some kinds of
tools
like I'll use like something called the
Beck Depression Inventory or the
Hamilton depression scale and
I'll have a conversation with them which
is a very strange conversation they say
I'm unhappy and like I feel like the
depression has it gone away and based on
the scales and I'll ask them like are
you able to get out of bed every day
they say yes can you go to work every
day they say yes do you have difficulty
concentrating no so why do you feel like
you're depressed and they say like well
I just don't I don't feel like doing
anything I feel like my life like
doesn't have any meaning and then I say
okay so this is as far is your
depression this is as far as treatment
for depression can take you there's a
difference between depression and
unhappiness we've treated your
depression the problem now is that
you're unhappy and these are two
different things and one of the biggest
mistakes that's been made in like modern
mental health thinking is that we've
started conflating unhappiness with
depression people who are unhappy say
that they are depressed and that sort of
makes sense because like that word works
but there's a difference between a
clinical depression and being unhappy
right there's a difference between being
ill
and like having a life that has no
meaning those are two entirely different
things
and so I think that the issue with lupus
is the way I'd put it is there's a
there's a huge difference there's a
cavernous difference between not wanting
to live or not caring to live and
wanting to die
and no no no so you guys are this is
completely wrong
depression equals over a longer time no
what I'm saying is that the color and
flavor these are two entirely different
things
it's like one is something you see and
one is something you hear completely
different spectrums not related at all
but unhappiness leat leads to depression
also untrue also untrue
so I'm defining things in a particular
way oftentimes people who are depressed
are also happy unhappy but sometimes
people who are depressed are content so
you guys have to understand that the
axis of your mind is different from like
the axis of your othman or your true
self that there's a difference between
pain and suffering does that make sense
like suffering and pain or two different
things and so I think what lupus is
dealing with is that they don't have a
good reason to live because their life
probably lacks meaning which is
absolutely a problem but the solution to
that problem is different from treating
depression now in this case I would
recommend that someone gets an
evaluation for depression right because
like you should just get checked out for
depression but like so now the question
becomes so a lot of people are thinking
a little bit about you know what's the
difference between these two can't they
relate to each other sure they can
relate because we everything can relate
we're a human being and the different
parts of ourselves interact but I'll
give you guys an example so this is the
example that I always use when I talk
about pain and suffering so the first
question is what's the difference
between pain and suffering so
like when I get a massage sometimes
technically I'm in pain but it feels
really good I'm not suffering at all it
just feels really good when I'm on call
like that's painful like it's painful to
not sleep for 24 hours but I feel
fulfilled like I feel like I'm doing
good work and I don't suffer
right even if we think about like
physical pain like I got a flu shot the
other day like that was painful but it
didn't cause me suffering so Sanskrit is
the best word to understand the best
language to understand this would that
talked about something called look look
means suffering and what he said is that
Lucas outside of the the mind actually
that within the mind we experience
emotions right like sadness and then
Luke is suffering so I'll give you guys
another example from my life so my dad
passed away several years ago
and I was sad and I was grieved but like
I was kind of also you know like I
thought it was his time and I understood
that he had lived a full life and am I
am I still sad that he's not alive today
yeah but I'm not like I don't suffer
because of it
right it would be different if I lost my
wife or lost my kids like then my
suffering would be intense like there's
a difference between sadness and
suffering like there's there's a certain
amount of peace that you can get like
sure like of course I want my dad to be
alive but at the same time you know like
he lived a life and like he was an
awesome dad and I'm grateful for the
person that he was and it was his time
to go and I can be okay with that right
like if you think about a relationship
where your long-distance with someone
and you guys try things for 18 months
and then the relationship you guys just
saw really decided that it's like it's
too hard we're just like it's too much
work and this relationship is not going
in the right direction
and we should break up and both of you
guys can be sad but you don't have to
suffer because of it right you can both
understand you can have some degree of
peace or contentment and understand that
this is the right thing even though it
hurts like a flu vaccine
so someone is asking can paint as
physical suffering as mental no right so
you can have mental pain too so the
source of suffering is attachment it's
not just an emotion it's attachment
right so if we think about what what
about my dad's situation would have left
left me with more suffering is if I had
like still wanted him to be alive if I
had felt like he hadn't lived a complete
life if I hadn't gotten from him
everything that I really needed to if I
was still attached to him being a lion
like the way that I am with you know my
family and my kids like I'm attached to
them I don't want them to go anywhere
like I'm not at peace with that
so attachment is the root of suffering
like for example I'll give you guys just
another example about dating and
friendship right so if I want to like
date someone I can be attracted to them
and I can ask them out and I can say hey
do you want to go out on a date can I
buy you dinner sometime and they can say
no I'm seeing someone but thank you very
much I'm flattered
and then I can be disappointed but I
don't have to be bent out of shape right
like I don't have to go home and like
cry into my pillow
like I don't have to do that now if I
was attached to her I would if I had
like built up this like this castle and
in my mind of like what our relationship
was gonna be like this fantasy and that
we were gonna go out and then she was
gonna be my waifu and then we would get
married and then you know she would like
like we would spend Christmas like this
and she would make me like breakfast
every morning and then I would make her
dinner every night
and if I like built up all these
attachments around the relationship then
I'm going to suffer but if I don't have
attachments if I understand that did I
want to go out with her absolutely
did I
did I am I disappointed sure
but I don't have to suffer well he's not
intensely so suffering is related to
attachment and pain and emotions are in
the mind in attachment actually is
rooted in the mind but like the
suffering happens kind of outside of the
mind
so huh yeah so a couple of a couple of
points okay so depression and
unhappiness can be related but I think
the main question here how do you know
if if you're so many good question okay
well I'm gonna stick with lupus is
questions okay how do you end suffering
or change it to pain if it makes sense
it does make sense the first thing to
understand is that like you can't avoid
pain in life right there's gonna be
disappointment there's gonna be sadness
there's gonna be grief you can however
do something about suffering so
suffering is is about attachment and so
the way to end your suffering is to
cultivate something called Vairagya
which means detachment so to be detached
from the outcomes of your actions and
the most important thing the most
important source of attachment for most
people that I work with is specifically
with the outcomes of their actions so
there's a big difference between wanting
to ask a girl out and wanting her to say
yes and being having an expectation or
hope or fantasy that's based on that
like an if you guys I used this because
I mean I use the relationship example
because I just I think it's like a raw
example that a lot of people can relate
to because it really captures this idea
there are other examples let's talk
about a promotion right
I can want a promotion but I can also
get like really caught up in it
I can get really invested in the
promotion the promotion means the world
to me and if I don't get it my life is
shattered
so I'm attaching myself to the outcome
it's like I want to go to Harvard or
Stanford or Yale and so I like like it's
and everyone can want to go there anyone
can want to go there but it's the people
who get attached to that idea who are
devastated when they don't get it and
then if you're not attached to it like
you could still want something like I
didn't want my dad to die but I
understood it was his time right because
there are some things that I've wanted a
life that I didn't get which I'm bummed
out about but I don't like suffer so I
think what lupus needs to do is to
understand first of all that you're
you're you're probably lacking so your
question a couple of questions one is
how do you how do you move from
suffering to pain and the answer is to
cultivate detachment how do you
cultivate detachment it's to focus on
your actions instead of the outcomes of
your actions it's the difference between
I really want an a on this test and I'm
gonna study four hours a day for the
next week until I take the test
those are two very very different things
they may both look the same but what you
tell yourself in your mind both of them
may result in you studying four hours a
day but it's what happens in here are
you focusing on what you do are you
focusing on what happens are you saying
I'm gonna ask that girl out or I really
really want her to say yes there's a
difference between I like that girl I'd
love to go on a date with her and I
really really really want her to be my
girlfriend
she's the one she's the one right that's
attachment you can see the difference
between that
like her she's cool I'd love to go out
out with her and she's the one she's the
one I know she's the one
like she's the one that's attachment
so if you're suffering in life chances
are the source of your suffering is
something related to attachment
another good question wouldn't being
detach make someone feel numb all the
time
no in fact the exact opposite if you
live a detached life you feel more
fulfilled right because think about this
for a second if you're if I really want
to go out with her
and let's just play this this tape
through to the end yeah I know lupus so
I'm tempted to say if you like we got
we're gonna switch to meditation but you
should come on stream or if you want to
hop on discord we can talk now
but so
yeah so we're gonna do we're gonna okay
so let's just take a step back okay
so first thing is suffering comes from
attachment peace come peace or
contentment comes from detachment now
most people think that apathy and
attachments are the same thing they
think that detachment means not caring
no just listen to what I'm saying okay I
like a girl
I think she's attractive I want to go on
a date with her does that mean that I
don't care no it doesn't mean that I
don't care I have once I have desires
but it just means that I'm not like bent
out of shape about her right and so then
what happens is if I asked her out and
she says yes
then the question becomes like what is
what is that what how do you think that
that person feels
hmmm how does that person feel
good right I'll tell you what it feels
like it feels like christmas came early
this year
that's that's what it feels like to them
right it's like yeah she said yes right
and that's different from with the
attached person
if she says yes and the person is
obsessed with her he actually doesn't
even feel great
he feels like like I mean he's gonna get
so obsessed right he's like oh my god
like this is gonna be like this is the
first step to everything else like this
is gonna be amazing
like oh my god this is gonna be so
awesome she's gonna be she's perfect I
knew she was perfect I knew it they get
obsessed whereas the person who she says
yes it's like yeah man like we're let's
do this like let's have fun no what I
love is completely different okay so the
interesting thing is that attachment and
expectation are related okay when you
have attachments you have expectations
I'm asking her out and I expect her to
say yes I'm putting my eggs in the yes
basket and so then the question becomes
so if attachment has to do with
expectation
detachment has to do with a lack of
expectation so detachment lack of
expectation how do you feel when you
don't expect something and you get
you
absolutely right so like buying the
buying a lottery ticket and winning the
lottery you would feel amazing no
question not buying a lottery ticket and
finding a winning lottery ticket in your
pocket would feel even better right like
it's crazy
so this is where I've okay so we're
gonna talk about meditation and so like
I want you guys to do something for me
so what I want you to do and we'll get
to lupus in a second okay so what I want
you guys to do is pay attention to which
moments of the week between now and next
week so let's let's do another discord
set of like write a paragraph to a page
about which moments were you the most
happy like try to find a moment to pure
happiness like it doesn't have to be a
big happiness but just like the purest
like the most untainted moment of
happiness so when I say most happy it
implies like you know something big has
time I'm not talking about the size of
the happiness I'm talking about the
purity of the happiness so when is like
a moment that you just like when is like
when are the purest moments of happiness
in your week and where are the purest
moments of suffering in your week and
really describe them describe the
scenario and then see if there's any
relationship between an X the existence
of an expectation and that happiness or
disappointment
you have to catch yourself right you
have to pay attention because it's gonna
be tiny tiny things
tiny tiny times so I'll tell you guys
what it is for me which is like I
solicit hugs and kisses from my two
daughters all the time
I still listed them I asked for them and
then if I don't get them I'm bummed out
if I do get them I'm happy but there are
some times sometimes where I'm just
sitting there I'm not doing anything I'm
like cooking or something like that and
one of my kids walks around and is like
daddy I want to give you a hug and then
they give me like this really really
great pot and on in that moment I feel
in pure bliss
right that's pure bliss that's pure
happiness
I mean don't get me wrong it feels great
when when like I need a hug and they
give me a hug
right yeah oxytocin
right and so like you guys are talking
about game
so like I'm gonna I'm gonna just drive
this home okay so Game of Thrones if you
guys want to re-watch Season eight
do you think if you watch it the second
time around you're going to enjoy it
less or more
you
ah why
Yeah right because you had this
expectation for it to be like a
satisfying conclusion
and it wasn't it was disappointing and
so if you go and Yuri watch it you know
it's gonna be a [ __ ] show you have no
expectations you know it's gonna suck
and then you can enjoy
you can just like look for all the
glaring potholes and you can laugh at
each one and so just think about this if
you can make season eight of Game of
Thrones an enjoyable experience like
that's what would the figure it out
that's what enlightenment is is living
your life and being able to enjoy season
eight of Game of Thrones
that's enlightenment modern-day
definition of enlightenment